# google-ads-keyword-optimize
Optimize keywords for conversions in a Google Ads search campaign

The code gets keywords from the Google Ads api and rotates the keywords by enabling previously paused keywords, pausing broad match type keywords with under 5 impressions and less than a 5% CTR, doubling the CPC of already enabled keywords with a CTR above 5% and 100 or less impressions, and giving a 50% increase to the CPC of phrase matching or exact matching keywords with less than 5 impressions. The code puts keywords into one of three arrays: paused, low_ctr and nothing. The three arrays are printed to label the performance of each keyword. 

The code optimizes the keywords of an Enhanced CPC campaign with a conversion goal. Sometimes, conversion-driven campaigns deliver plenty of traffic with strong keywords but few conversions.  While this situation is great for click-driven campaigns aiming for traffic, this is not desired performance when the goal is conversions.

The code reenables previously paused keywords to see how they will perform in the current search climate. Some keywords perform differently throughout the year so it's a good idea to rotate the enabled status of certain keywords. Another reason the code reenables previously paused keywords is because the reenabled keywords will shock the machine learning and redirect the campaign's targeting. If the conversion-driven campaign has been producing great traffic with few conversions for three months, then it's time for the machine to learn something else (assuming you don't have a UX issue on the landing page). The code doubles the CPC for keywords with a CTR above 5% and 100 or less impressions to help the stronger keywords win more search auctions and increasing the opportunities for conversions. The code pauses any keyword without impressions and pauses broad match keywords with less than 5 impressions. Often times, campaigns accumulate several keywords with 1 or 2 impressions that go nowhere. For phrase and exact match types with less than 5 impressions and above 0 impressions, the CPC is increased by 50%.  Phrase and exact match types can sometimes be high performers for clicks and CTR but deliver few impressions. To find out the performance potential of these exact and phrase match types, the code increases the CPC bid to win more search auctions.
